# Assymblyre: Composing Code

## Abstract
Creating software is closely tied to overcoming knowledge gaps between peers, automating busy work and improving code bases. The undelying processes function under a collective effort to maximisze profit. With research tracks such as performant algorithm analysis, complex security principles or evolving intelligence systems, the creative possibilities and discourses seem diverse and fruitful. This promise, however, is challenging to upkeep as the industrial complex highly relies on the labor of writing code in the most effective ways possible. Research groups teaching the code they rely on financially and academic publications releasing in high frequency obfuscate the dichotomy between research and industry. The need for software developers and the educational imbalance paint a narrative of the powerful and future-shaping developer. Learning resources closely relate to learning specific programming languages or frameworks, understanding the principles of code delivery, and working effectively in corporate teams. Swiftly, the potential of an unexplored medium such as code becomes an instrument for the industry, rather than subject to critical analysis and playing. What seems to be an opportunity to shape ideas in ways unimagined, becomes a commodity that is ought to be taught by the complex power dynamics of the cisheteropatriarchy. 

Computer science research groups, art collectives, (cyber-)feminist institutions and the industry such as [...] embrace the idea of queering coding and standing up for the notions of creative processes in technology. Understanding the prevalent power of soft- and hardware and the ones who shape it, individuals can be educated on the main focus of computer science by introducing feminist ideas on approaching the medium. An exploratory and self-driven confrontation with programs, the inclusion of societal impact of computing principles and a continuously evaluated room for marginalized voices on the matters are a selection of ideas on making programming accessible. Forming a collective consciousness on the impact of the medium code and applying it in technology even outside the generative context enables novel interactions with technology and the people influenced by it. With that in mind, while this thinking saw its implementation in coding projects with children, university courses, teaching resources, public art installations and video games already, digital, independent learning platforms and respective online infrastructure remains mostly unexplored.
In my thesis, I present an online education platform for exploring the principles of computer science, its societal implications and implementations in art, culture and prose. It is to show that by teaching creative code through a feminist gaze, people are able to critically comprehend the core ideas of computer science. Alongside a corpus of resources from the cyberfeminism index, the net art anthology, leading research on creative programming and curated guides, I provide an editor environment to build pseudocode through the possibilities of digital internet art. Over the course of two weeks, individuals work on their own programs while reflecting on their works and ideas. Through a probe study, and an interview, the individuals' assessment on their personal growth in the field will reveal the potential on teaching queer code.

## Setup
```bash
npm i -D
npm run serve
```
